# Leading software delivery
I lead and oversee the delivery of various software projects at [Synthesis](www.synthesis.co.za).  Aiming to develop simple yet beautiful user experiences that are underpinned by sophisticated, targeted software architecture.  For me, the user experience is where the value resides and I try to align all the effort towards it.  It seems obvious, but the software industry has been embarrassingly successful in delivering the wrong thing, that is, ignoring the user's experience.  I also put a lot of focus on eliminating software waste by asking why, a lot.  I think of software delivery as more of a creative act than a planned process.

# Online banking systems
For 5+ years I've worked with both Investec Mauritius and [AFGRI](https://afgri.co.za/enhancement-afgris-online-transaction-platform-frees-time-farmers/) to develop their online transactional systems.  If you've ever done a course on computer science you'll know that online banking is the default classroom example.  It's an exciting piece of software development and a pretty rare opportunity that I'm extremely thankful for.  Here especially, you can't afford to neglect security, I believe this attitude should be maintained for all software and online banking gave me the skills to do so.  Both systems have been well accepted by both business and their userbase and have later evolved into something larger, venturing into forex, barter and a wider digital channel.

# Digital channels & customer experience
I've been in many, many workshops where companies are trying to figure out their digital strategy.  Most struggle with where to start, they don't know why, how or what, they simply know that the digital world is moving fast and the worst thing they can do is, nothing.  Companies usually believe they have to replace legacy back-end systems before they can digitize their business.  I propose the opposite, start immediately and start with the front-end, the customer experience.  I help companies determine where to start, and I start with the why.  Recently we've helped two Mauritius based companies start building their digital channel.  I buy into the lean and agile philosophy, building your digital channel with as much learning and feedback from real users and real experiences as you can muster.

# FinTech & Startups
My main area of focus is the financial industry.  This area has recently received a name: [FinTech](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_technology).  It is a vibrant arena with challenges all the way from security through blockchain to UX.  It is impossible to keep up, a new competitor can emerge from a completely different industry after a 24h hackathon.  You need to disrupt or be disrupted.  As counter-intuitive as it seems, you can have a process for innovation.  It's pretty simple - fail.  Fail fast, learn and repeat.  At a client in Kenya we're building a consumer finance business from scratch.  Within weeks, we had the CEO and developers in store selling our first product, running the operation on Google Sheets.  After a month, we were at it again, this time with a light weight mobile front-end.  So we continue, learning an incredible amount with actual experiences and building the leanest back end support as we need it.  Avoiding the cumbersome burden of making tech stack decisions at the start when you know the least.  The first thing we got wasn't a software license invoice, but a customer.

# Retail
I spent my initial years in the industry at the huge consulting firm, Accenture.  My major client was Edcon, a very large retail group in South Africa.  Their POS system was a massive system and a great feat of architecture.  Every challenge is at super scale, take for example the issue of deploying changes to more than a 1000 stores, country wide, each having several terminals.  I worked on various pieces of their technical stack and experienced the waterfall methodology at full force.  At Accenture, I also worked for the South-African revenue services.  Here we developed audit engines that had to have an incredible throughput and stability, it was all about accuracy and performance.

# Speaking
Having started out at the North-West University as lecturer, teaching has always been close to heart.  Although teaching in tech is better described as sharing experiences, you never give a lecture or talk without also learning.  The field is wide and moves unprecedentedly fast.  I've returned plenty times to the university to speak about security and the Agile process.  I've been privileged to [speak](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QtizRt3u8pvP8am7ZHAUMIRx_ZfX6JPWxjPKjTyXtug/edit?usp=sharing) at the [SCRUM user group meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Scrum-User-Group-Johannesburg/events/238828254/) and their SCRUM gathering conference as well, combining a lot of the ideas on this blog.

# Reading, Research & University
I enjoy reading non-fiction, a variety of fields interests me, any kind of science, astrophysics, cosmology, history, biographies, religion and philosophy.  For my computer science [masters degree](https://dspace.nwu.ac.za/handle/10394/4411) on image processing I had the opportunity to work on a problem related to astrophysics.  I was fortunate enough to work with two brilliant professors.  Here I could combine my love for science and hard core programming logic.  This interest still surfaces every now and then when I can find the time to entertain it.

# Departure point
My passion for coding started through games.  I built my own maps, built modifications for games like Quake 2 and Half-life and me and a friend even tried building a real time strategy game from scratch.  To try and balance my geekiness (not successful, according to my friends), I enjoy music, plays, poetry & any kind of sport.


