# My declaration of faith

My faith is rooted in a deep commitment to seeking God's will and glorifying His name in all I do. Each day begins with prayer, where I surrender control of my endeavors, trusting Him to bring fruit. Through prayer and aligning to His will, God will amplify the fruits of my labor, just as He did for George Muller, who built an orphanage on prayer alone. I focus on performing to my potential, not to my reward, and to be a source of life and encouragement to others. I am devoted to use my talents and blessings to generously sow into God's kingdom and make a lasting impact. As Desmond Tutu said, "We are just the light bulbs; our job is to remain screwed in."

I hold to a foundational Christian faith, much like what C.S. Lewis describes in Mere Christianity. I deeply love the Bible and admire Jesus—not only for His divine wisdom but for the fullness of His humanity. He was fierce and kind, playful and serious, full of both truth and grace. He wept with sorrow, laughed with joy, confronted hypocrisy, and held little children in His arms. He was at ease among sinners yet unwavering in righteousness, embracing both justice and mercy without contradiction. His wisdom was not only in what He said but in the piercing, unexpected questions He asked—unsettling the proud and uplifting the broken.

I see the Bible as a library of inspired works—rich in history, poetry, prophecy, and teaching—guiding us toward God's truth. I find harmony between faith and reason, knowing that God's truth is vast and deep, revealing itself in both scripture and the wonders of His creation.

I'm ready for some dangerous permission, some great adventure, new freedom, some hope from nowhere, some stumbling stones, unexpected hapiness and radical grace. I'm here to give back freely and fully, what God has given to me.